# File_Processing

File_Merger.py:
Combine counts files for individual samples into a compiled counts matrix.
Works with imput files that are a minimum of 2 columns, with the gene description in the first column and sample counts in the last column. 

	usage: File_Merger.py [-h] [-S [S [S ...]]] [-L L]
	optional arguments:
	  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
	  -S [S [S ...]], --count_set [S [S ...]]
	                        Counts files, seperated by space. Tab-delimited (.txt) or comma-seperated (.csv) files are accepted
	  -L L, --count_list L  Text file of count file names, one file per line. Ignored if --exp_set is also specified

    Example usage: python File_merger.py -L count_list.txt 
    OR
    python File_merger.py -S S1.txt S2.txt S3.txt

If all your counts files are in the same location, the file list can generated in command line using 'ls'.

    ls \*.csv > ./mycounts_list.txt 
    ls \*.txt > ./mycounts_list.txt 

The file generated by running File_Merger.py is a counts matrix named './counts_matrix.txt'. Future updates will allow user specify the name of this matrix, with the default name being './counts_matrix.txt'.


## To be optimized by Casey
Phenotype_Creator:
Creates a phenotype file for Cibersort
In the file created uses a 1 to denote the matches and a 2 for every other location. 

    Example usage: python Phenotype_creator.py -h
    		python Phenotype_creator.py -R RPKM.txt -CT cell_type.txt --output_prefix ./Pheno_matrix
                    OR
                python Phenotype_creator.py -R RPKM.csv -CT cell_type.csv

Change the type_loc, sample_loc, and both_loc to reflect the three files needed.
The rpkm file should be a csv tab-separated txt file.
The cell type file should be a csv or tab-separated txt file with a header and two columns, the sample name in the first and respective cell type in the second.
